In our last video,
we introduced the Information-Action
Value Chain, which starts with events or
characteristics in the real world, and
ends with an action in the marketplace.
We covered the part of the value chain
that happens before we execute our
data analysis.
Specifically, we learned about how events
in the real world are captured and
turned into data by source systems.
And how data from many sources
are gathered in a common location and
then extracted for analysis.
We ended by identifying
three types of analytics,
Descriptive Analytics, Predictive
Analytics and Prescriptive Analytics.
In this video, we pick up where we left
off and discuss the analysis itself and
the steps that happen after
the analysis is done.
Let's start by defining
the three types of analytics.
Descriptive Analytics
as its name suggests,
helps us describe what things look
like now or what happened in the past.
The idea of course is to
use that information to
better understand the business
environment and how it works.
And to apply that knowledge
along with business acumen
to make better decisions going forward.
Descriptive Analytics can take
the form of simple aggregations or
cross tabulations data.
Simple statistical measures like means,
medians, and standard deviations.
More sophisticated statistics like
distributions, confidence intervals and
test of hypotheses or advanced
association or clustering algorithms.
Many of these ideas are covered in
course two of this specialization.
So let's continue with the same example we
used in the last lesson, where we wanted
to describe the types of customers
that cancel their wireless service.
This is a pretty clear application of
descriptive analytics, since we simply
are trying to understand what types of
customers have cancelled up till now.
Predictive Analytics help us take what we
know about what happened in the past, and
use that information to help us predict
what will happen in the future.
This almost always involves
the application of advanced statistical
methods or other numeric techniques
such as linear or logistic regression.
Tree based algorithms, neural networks and
simulation techniques such
as Monte Carlo simulation.
These type of techniques are also
covered in more detail in course two.
Now, while we noted that our customer
cancellation example was primarily
a descriptive analytics exercise.
One could easily see us wanting to take
our thought processes a step further and
actually use information about
who cancelled in the past
to predict who might cancel in the future.
We use predictive analytics
techniques to do that.
The last class of analytics is what
we call Prescriptive Analytics.
This type of analysis helps explicitly
link analysis to decision making
by providing recommendations
on what we should do or
what choice we should make to
achieve a certain outcome.
It usually involves the integration
of numerical optimization techniques
with business rules and
even financial model.
Both predictive and prescriptive analytics
often use descriptive analytics'
techniques in the exploratory phase or
to provide inputs to those models.
This idea is illustrated in course
three of the specialization.
Again, one can see how Predictive
Analytics might play into our customer
cancellation example.
Let's say, that we actually
wanted to reach out to customers
we think might cancel and
attempt some sort of intervention.
Let's also say that we only have
enough money to reach to a subset of
those customers.
Prescriptive analytic techniques might
help us understand which customers we
should target to maximize
return on our investment.
In summary, there are a variety
of techniques available to
you to use in accomplishing your analysis.
Depending on the nature
of the business need and
whether you're trying to understand
what happened, what will happen, or
what you should do in the future.
So now let's say, we've completed
the mechanics of our analysis.
What's next?
Are we ready to move on
to the next problem?
In most cases, the answer is no.
There's still much work to be done
before we get to that end goal
of taking action in the marketplace.
The first step in the latter half
of our journey is summarizing and
interpreting the results of our analysis.
While some analyses are straightforward,
that's not often the case.
My analysis may have involved many steps
or took some unexpected twists and turns.
I may have needed a second pass
based on some initial learnings.
It's also not always clear what
the results of an analysis mean.
This is why context is so
important in business analytics.
Without a clear understanding
of how the business works,
it can be hard to understand
what an analysis is telling you.
Mechanically, summarizing an analysis
usually involves identifying a few charts,
graphs or tables.
That make it as easy as possible
to see what's going on and
supplementing those figures with a short
narrative that explains what they mean.
Simplicity is key here.
Chances are you have a ton of data and
you've spent a lot of time looking
deeply at the data in all sorts of ways.
But now is the time to pull
back out of the tails and
distill all you've worked
down to a few key points.
It's also when you determine
whether you have successfully
answered the question
you intended to answer.
Did you get sidetracked?
Did you lose site of the goal?
Or did you learn something important
that made you realize you were asking
the wrong question to begin with?
Let's take our customer
cancellation example.
I may have looked at dozens of
variables to determine what type of
customers cancel.
I may have created a stack
of cross tabulations, or
tried a few aggression models,
to gain insights into what's going on.
Let's say that among all those outputs,
I discovered a strong relationship
between cancellation events and
how long a customer has been a subscriber,
or a customer tenure.
Specifically, I observe
a large spike in cancellations
right after the two year point.
Because I understand my business, I
immediately make a connection to the link
of a service contract,
which is also two years.
To summarize my analysis,
I might only need one graph.
Let's say a plot of customer
cancellation rate by month,
which shows a strong
peak in the 25th month.
I note the peak and suggest that
customers are much more likely to cancel
following the expiry of
their two-year contract.
It turns out,
the visualizing data in a compelling way
is as much of art as it is a science.
In courses three and four,
we'll spend more time talking about how
to visualize different types of data.
So for many analyst, this might be
the point in which the work ends.
A different part of the organization
might pick up the results and
be tasked with developing business
strategies and tactics to act on them.
However, that's not always the case and
as you become more senior and
more experienced.
You should seek to be a part of
the decision making process and
execution processes, which start here.
As we discussed in the last video,
analyses don't add a lot of value unless
we actually do something with them.
Now that I understand what's going on,
I can use those insights to create
a plan for how to take some action.
Normally, this involves setting
a high-level strategy, then developing
specific actions or tactics that I can
take to achieve some sort of outcome.
I might develop multiple alternatives and
weigh the pros and cons of each.
I might even develop a financial model or
run a follow on decision analysis
to help me assess each option.
In our customer cancellation example,
the desired outcome is simple.
I'd like customers to stick around and
not cancel their service.
This would be a tenet of my overall
customer retention strategy.
My analysis has identified that a key
characteristic of cancelling customers
is their service tenure.
So I have a pretty good idea of when
each customer is most likely to cancel.
I might consider communicating
to these customers and
make them some sort of offer
to renew their contracts.
My plan for this might have
a number of considerations.
When exactly should I
reach out to customers?
Before the contract expires?
Right when the contract expires?
After to contract expires?
What should I offer customers to renew?
How much will it take?
How should I reach out?
Mail?
Email?
Phone?
Text?
Or should I wait for them to contact me?
Should I just roll this out or
should I test it first?
How confident am I in the outcome?
How much impact do I think
the action will have?
How am I going to measure the results?
Well, I have the data I need to assess the
impact, that last question in particular
is critical, since it maps out the needs
for the next round of data analysis.
So let's assume we've used the results of
our analysis to construct the solid plan
for action that we think will
have a meaningful impact.
Chances are we're going to have to
convince someone to let us try it, or
convince them to go and try it themselves.
Often this personal organization
is the one with the funding.
This is where we hit the next stage of
our framework, delivering the pitch.
No matter how good your analysis is and
no matter how promising your plan is.
There's a good chance you'll get no
where fast if you can't effectively
communicate your results and
sell your proposal.
In course four,
we'll spend a lot more time talking
about how to communicate results.
But for now, lets just touch on a couple
of ideas that are particularly important
when analytics are involved.
Given how hard you've worked on
the analysis up to this point, and
the time you've devoted to it.
You might be tempted to take your audience
through a journey of all the steps you
took to get to this point.
While there are always
exceptions to the rule,
this usually isn't the best approach.
Instead, think about how simple
you can make the message and
still convey the essence of your idea.
Use an executive summery to
quickly get to the point,
then circle back to the details.
Also, make sure to focus on the benefits
and business value of the plan.
If you have an estimate of profit or
return on investment, use it.
Pay attention to the quality of your
materials, whether they're slides,
documents or other artifacts.
Right or wrong,
people tend to equate poor quality of
materials with poor quality of analysis.
The best analysis and
presentation can be derailed
by something as simple as a typo or
a bad number on a slide.
Finally, know your staff.
You don't necessarily want to have a lot
of details in your main presentation but
be prepared to answer questions about your
approach, assumptions, methodologies and
results.
Try to anticipate what questions
your audience might ask or
where they might in your logic and
be ready to respond clearly and precisely.
Okay, assuming we've
done well on our pitch,
we reach the final stage in our journey,
taking action.
Congratulations, you now get
to see the fruit of your
labor realized in the market.
The nature of the action can take many
forms depending on your strategy and
objectives.
But, as we mentioned earlier, there's a
good chance that you'll want to understand
the impact you've had which begins
the analytical process all over again.
So let's recap what we've covered today.
We recalled the last video,
where we talked about the steps that
happen before our analysis begins.
We described three types of analytics,
Descriptive, Predictive and
Prescriptive, and
gave a few examples of each.
We established the need to interpret
our analysis and summarize the results.
We step slightly beyond he boundaries of
pure analytics and discuss how we turn
the results of our analysis into
a strategy and plan for action.
We outline some of the key considerations
in pitching your idea to decision makers.
And finally, we realized our plan
by taking action in the market.